Jaime, we already understand very
well what CRM is, and I think
we have assimilated it as a tool
that can help us understand
and improve the customer, etc.
What happens is that you are
the global CRM manager at Philips,
because it's a big corporation,
and our students have people
working in giant companies
like yours, but there are
people who have small.
And what we have to make very
clear is that CRM is a
strategy applicable to any type
of company.
to everyone.
An example would be the neighborhood
carnage.
He always has that close relationship
and he knows what we like, when
we go, this is extrapolable to a
big corporation.
We should behave exactly
the same with our customers,
know them, know what they
want, what they need and when
we will be there.
What kind of tools?
I would like to give you a little
visibility based on the size of
the company.
What types of tools can we use and
how much does it cost?
I think the main thing here
is to know your company and know
what you will need, because depending
on that one tool or another
can serve you.
As we have mentioned before, maybe
a simple Excel in a starting state
can serve you, or an Access
where I have a list with my clients
and what things I am dealing
with them.
If we start talking about
platforms that are on the market,
we could distinguish them
in three large groups.
The big players who are the leaders
in the market, if we go to
Gardner's magic squares and things
like that, those who are always
up on the right, that can be
Salesforce, Oracle, Microsoft
Dynamics.
All this is true that it has a
relatively high price compared
to other players, but it is true
that it also has a lot
more capacity to adapt
to your company.
In many cases you can customize
it simply with clicks, in other
cases at best if you need
some development of IT
teams behind it.
This is the vast majority of
large companies they use,
also by the amount of integrations
they have with other
systems.
In the bottom, what we are looking for
is to have information from all sides,
we will want to integrate it with
a RP system, with a SAP, or we will
want to integrate it with the web
or with an e-commerce.
And these are, to make us the idea,
almost megaprojects.
They are usually megaprojects,
although for example Salesforce
has licenses, for example, for
NGOs.
I worked on projects in which there
were NGOs that were five people.
There are also small packages
for this type of...
I'm not thinking from the
software maker's perspective,
but I'm thinking for large
companies, a CRM project is
a megaproject.
They are usually mega projects
because it's the amount of people
involved and the massive
amount of information we have
to store.
They are usually massive projects.
You usually need a consultant,
who implants it, etc.
justly.
And it is a high cost.
They are usually costly.
Can you give it or is it...?
It can be millions.
Depending on which areas you
are automating.
You may decide that you just
want to start by selling.
But maybe if you want to
automate sales, marketing, customer
service, you will put in marketing
tools, automation, connections
with RPS, we can go
to millions.
and perfect.
In the second stage we would be in
tools or companies that are more medium-
sized.
They are not startups, but they are
not big corporations.
In this case, we might probably
go to, we could name, for example,
Sugars CRM.
It is a very powerful
tool too.
The cost is a little lower than
in these cases, than in the
previous cases, than Salesforce,
than Dynamics.
But it can also be customized quite a bit.
It can be adapted to business.
I think that would be a good example
for a medium-sized company.
It has 150 employees and accounts for
20 million euros.
I have a question about the march.
How is this paid?
What is the cost format?
Historically, they were licenses you
compared, implemented on your own
servers, and they are already there.
You paid it once and you
should have to make a renovation.
It's true that with the
entire explosion of cloud computing
and SaaS models, this is a
subscription you pay monthly.
It has a certain trick because
usually what they ask for is a
minimum stay of one year, which
also makes sense.
Pay per user and per month.
Depending on how many users you
want to put in the platform and what
functionalities you want to put in,
having small add-ons.
It is usually monthly.
Basically, and if I am wrong or
you correct me, you have
to pay initially in almost all
cases an implant.
The company can do it for you.
an external partner or a consultant.
If you have an internal person, you can do it.
But that has a cost and it is the implementation.
And then what you pay is monthly
SaaS software that goes according
to the number of users.
And also often depending on the
functionalities you are going to hire.
There is a cost many times that is
indirect, that people forget and that
I think it's important that it's
the whole part of managing change.
In the bottom, this
is a tool that is alive and
will evolve as the
company evolves.
You will always need
to update.
Not in terms of software, but in
terms of processes, in terms of
the business rules you have implemented.
This is a constant cost that you
will have to keep up to date.
The same is true
of all users of these
platforms.
This is a cost that people
and often forget.
But if you really want this to
go ahead, it's a small game
that you have to always reserve.
Basically that I think is
that over time you are learning
to use it better.
Because your needs are changing.
This is a permanent
adaptation.
Today you want to measure this of the customer
but tomorrow you want to measure something else.
Because you realized that the value
is in another data for example.
That is.
So if you have a rule of
automation that captures
that data.
You should update it to capture
two or three more data.
And make two or three decisions based
on all of this.
There are constant
updates, both in knowledge
and technology.
How can or what tools
or how does CRM work
in small companies?
In small, you usually have
software that is free or
that is premium models.
That is, you may have certain
features or certain limited
users free.
And according to that, you can then
pay certain salaries.
There are companies, for example,
you have Zoho CRM.
There are many other types
of CRM, for example.
There are several that are also
for SMEs and are thought for them.
They do not have large integrations
with large systems.
But these companies will not require
it either.
It is just the best you
have.
They have integrations.
In some cases, we use what we use.
They have integrations, for example,
with tools to make mailings.
They all have integrations.
All of them.
I think that's a very important
part that they have.
So it's a bit what I was talking about at
the beginning.
You need to know what your company
is going to publish.
And based on all that, look for
which tool is the one that
best suits your needs.
I always see it
as a kind of dress.
It will be a company.
In this case, a manufacturer.
These are the models.
But you have to adjust it to your needs.
There are no two companies that
are exactly the same.
What is the cost of a software
as a service, CRM?
The analysis is too
simple.
Let's make a little idea.
Take CRM for example.
Just in that I don't know.
It is true that we are on
average.
This is the lower segment.
It can be between 10 and 20 euros
per user per month.
Something of that style.
is well.
To make us a little idea.
For a higher price, it is
best to go up.
The Salesforce Company.
He has several licenses.
The highest of all I think is 170
euros per month per user.
But it includes a lot of functionalities
that do not have the small ones.
It can vary between that.
Maybe 5 or 10 euros a month.
From a basic to a more advanced one.